---
title: Davao Bombing
publishDate: 2016-09-06
modifyDate: 2016-09-06
author: Beth Symanzik
collection: posts
template: post.jade
---

Many people have asked me about the safety of my family in Davao since the bombing that happened there on September 2.

The Philippine president, Mr. Dueterte, had been the mayor of Davao and made it a very safe place to live.  He's now trying to do that throughout the nation and needless to say, some are not happy with that.  There has been increased security at the malls in Davao since he was elected president.  Threats have been issued about bombings.

We grieve with those who've lost loved ones in the bombing.  We pray for those recovering from injuries sustained in that event.  We are thankful for safety that none of our immediate family and friends were at that night market when the bomb went off.

As I read Psalm 46 this morning I was reminded,

```verse
"God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear....
The nations rage, the kingdoms totter; He utters his voice, the earth melts.  
The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Come, behold the works of the Lord, how He has brought desolations on the earth.
He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and shatters the spear;
He burns the chariots with fire. "Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted 
among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!" The Lord of hosts is with us; 
the God of Jacob is our fortress."
```

My mother's heart wants to gather my three children from Davao and bring them here with me.  But I know that the school they attend has increased security, all the schools in Davao have.  I know they will leave Davao if need be for missionaries to do so.  

And there is peace resting in His promise that all the days of each of our lives are ordained and written in His book (Psalm 136: 16).  His thoughts toward each of us are precious, more abundant than the sand (Psalm 136:18).  He works all things for good as we grow in His way (Romans 8).

To read more about news and happenings in Davao, Philippines go to http://www.sunstar.com.ph/davao

Thanks for praying for my family based in Davao.

