---
title: Interesting Information about TCKs
publishDate: 2016-09-14
modifyDate: 2016-09-14
author: Beth Symanzik
collection: posts
template: post.jade
---

I wanted to share some interesting information about Third Culture Kids (TCKs).  "Third Culture Kids" (TCKs) describe kids who have spent a majority of their developmental years outside their passport country.  TCKs integrate aspects of their birth culture (the first culture/passport country) and the new culture (the second culture), creating a unique "third culture."

Missionary Kids (MKs) typically spend the most time overseas in one country. 85% of MKs spend more than 10 years in foreign countries and 72% have lived in only one foreign country.   MKs generally have the most interaction with the local populace, integrating themselves into the local culture; and the least interaction with people from their passport country. This makes it much harder for them to return to their passport country for college, a job, etc.

There are different characteristics that impact the typical Third Culture Kid:

* Teenage TCKs are more mature than non-TCKs, but ironically take longer to "grow up" in their 20s. 
* 90% feel "out of sync" with their peers. 
* Lack a sense of "where home is" but often nationalistic. 
* Depression and suicide are more prominent among TCK's. 
* Some studies show a desire to "settle down" others a "restlessness to move". 
* TCKs are 4 times as likely as non-TCKs to earn a bachelor's degree (81% vs 21%) 
* 40% earn an advanced degree (as compared to 5% of the non-TCK population.) 
* 45% of TCKs attended 3 universities before earning a degree. 
* Educators, medicine, professional positions, and self employment are the most common professions for TCKs. 
* 90% report feeling as if they understand other cultures/peoples better than the average American. 

You know you are a Third Culture Kid (TCK) when:

* "Where are you from?" has more than one reasonable answer. 
* You've said that you're from foreign country X, and (if you live in America) your audience has asked you which US state X is in. 
* You feel odd being in the ethnic majority. 
* You have a passport but no driver's license. 
* You go into culture shock upon returning to your "home" country. 
* You wince when people mispronounce foreign words. 
* You don't know whether to write the date as day/month/year, month/day/year, or some variation thereof. 
* The best word for something is the word you learned first, regardless of the language. 
* You get confused because US money isn't colour-coded. 
* You think VISA is a document that's stamped in your passport, not a plastic card you carry in your wallet. 
* You own personal appliances with 3 types of plugs, know the difference between 110 and 220 volts, 50 and 60 cycle current, and realize that a trasnsformer isn't always enough to make your appliances work. 
* You fried a number of appliances during the learning process. 
* You think the Pledge of Allegiance might possibly begin with "Four-score and seven years ago..." 
* You believe vehemently that football is played with a round, spotted ball. 
* You get homesick reading National Geographic. 
* You think in the metric system and Celsius. 
* You may have learned to think in feet and miles as well, after a few years of living (and driving) in the US. (But not Fahrenheit. You will *never* learn to think in Fahrenheit). 
* You haggle with the checkout clerk for a lower price. 
* You've gotten out of school because of monsoons, bomb threats, and/or popular demonstrations. 
* You speak with authority on the subject of airline travel. 
* You think that high school reunions are all but impossible. 
* You have friends from 29 different countries. 
* You sort your friends by continent. 
* You have a time zone map next to your telephone. 
* You realize what a small world it is, after all. 

Information resourced from : http://www.tckidnow.com/whats-a-tckid/
